So now we're going to take a look at sort
of increasing our sophistication as we
write these little regular
expression programs.
So one of the things that we've been doing
is we've been looking through files,
looking for from lines, breaking them
apart by spaces, and looking for
email addresses.
And even looking for domain names
within them, and so let's sort of take
a look at some of these things that we've
done before in previous programs and
how we can use regular expressions to
make our lives a little bit easier.
So here is playing with
some non-blank stuff.
So if you recall our goal
is to sort of we use split,
we've used many different ways to extract.
This second chunk of stuff using spaces,
and then we can pull
the email address out.
And we can write a regular expression.
So think to yourself, you think,
oh you know what, what I'm looking for
is things that have @ signs in them,
that's good.
And I want to kinda go outward from
the @ sign and stop at a blank.
And so that is like find that thing and
then go backwards,
split until you find the blanks.
Well, we can express that.
We can express match an @ sign and before
the @ sign I want a series of one or
more non-blank characters, so
\S is non-blank, plus is at least one.
And then, afterwards I have
some non-blank characters,
at least one non-blank character.
And then greedy this is where greedy is
your friend, keep pushing, push, push,
push, push, push, until you find something
that fails, which is a blank character.
So we have a blank here, and a blank here
or if you're pushing all the way and
went to the end of the line
they would stop as well.
But, so it's like, push outwards find
the @ sign and then push outwards.
And then we say, hey, find all the things
that match this particular regular
expression in this particular string and
low and behold we get a list.
Remember that findall always gives us back
a list that gives us exactly what we want.
So we can in a single line use
the regular expression library
to find what we're looking for.
[COUGH]
We can fine tune this a little more
because maybe there's lines that have @
signs on them that we don't really wanna
even parse, don't even wanna look at.
So we can
fine tune this by saying I'm only
interested in lines that start with from.
And we write in Python
we could put a loop,
we could an if statement into a continue,
we've done a lot of this, right?
But here's a way with regular
expressions to do it all in one little
extending of the program.
And I keep calling these little
things here the program.
That's the one we just built
that says go through and
find me lines that have @ sign with
blanks before [INAUDIBLE], okay.
But we can use a new thing,
and that is parentheses.
So the parentheses here,
if you look at your quick guide,
the parentheses are indicate to the
regular expression library, the start and
the end of what to extract, okay?
So this is a whole regular expression.
And the parentheses
aren't part of the lines.
The parentheses are up in here,
they're not in the line we're looking for.
But they're part of the regular
expression program to say,
I'm gonna give you a bigger match, but the
only part that I want you to give me back
in the return value is the stuff
in between the parentheses, so
it's like start here,
start there, but match.
So when we use the parentheses, and
they're kinda implied here,
we want whatever matches.
So the parentheses unless
you don't put them in,
it gives you pretty much
the entire thing that's matched.
And greedy expansion and all of that.
But our whole regular
expressions I'll says,
you know what,
this is what I'm looking for.
I wanna find a line.
That has as its first five
characters from followed by a blank,
this is a little blank here.
Followed by, and
then parentheses says start the match.
Start and stop the match.
Look for, non-blank character,
at least one followed by an @ sign,
followed by one or more non-blank
characters and then stop matching.
And so, here is what we pass
in as the regular expression.
And so that matches the beginning of the
line from, and it matches the space and
then it finds non-blank characters and
it keeps on trucking along with non-blank
characters, finds an @ sign, then it says
I need some more non-blank characters, and
it stops here because
it finds a blank here.
And then it pulls apart in a sense
the parentheses wrap that bit.
So even though this from and
the space were part of the matching,
which means the lines that don't start
with from will not give us anything, but
we still pull out the thing that we want.
So parenthesis is a way to make
a longer regular expression and
only extract a part of that.
Right?
So parentheses a way to make a really
long regular expression but say great,
match all of it.
But only return to me the part that
goes in between the parentheses.
And again, part of what you're doing
is you're looking through data.
You're throwing away data or
lines that you don't want.
And then parsing the lines
that you do want.
And this is a way of throwing away
the lines that you don't want.
And this is a way of parsing
the lines that you do want.
So, if you recall, another thing that
we did was we didn't just look for
the email address.
We looked for the domain name,
which is the part after the @ sign.
And so the hard way, the sort of low level
chopping way that we do it in Python,
is if you recall, we said do a find.
That means look from the beginning,
find me the position and
that @ sign is in position 21.
So find the @ sign look through here,
find the @ sign.
It's 21.
Oh, okay, then what we're gonna
do is we're gonna look for
the next space after the @ sign.
So we do this.
Starting from the at position
look where the spaces at.
Well, and that turns out to be 31.
So now we have 31 and 21, and
then what we do once we have 31 and 21,
we basically say start at
22 which is 21 plus 1.
Up to but not including, that's what
this slicing is, if you recall.
Start at position plus one, one character
beyond the @ sign, go up to but
don't include the space.
So that then carefully
extracts the little piece.
For some of you, you're like that makes
a lot more sense than regular expressions
and other of you are like whoa,
I don't want ever use this again,
I wanna use regular expressions for
everything.
It's okay.
Cuz different people sort of like
different kinds of things in programming.
They're doing the same thing.
It's just harder.
So, this is sort of like the low
level rugged way to do things.
And we can do the same thing
with regular expressions.
Sort of like, we have to be a little more
clever and we have to know our little
programming language, but then once we
do we can do this a lot more succinctly.
The other way we did this was with
the double split pattern, if you recall.
So if you recall the first thing we
did with the split was we split based
on spaces.
We split based on spaces and that's what
this line is, split based on spaces.
And then what we did was we found the word
sub one, which is this guy right here.
That's word sub one which is
the email address which is this.
And then we did another split base on @
signs so the net chopped it right here.
And then pieces sub one, cuz the net
becomes zero and that becomes one.
Pieces sub one,
was the thing after the @ sign, right?
So here we have the pieces
after this is the @ split.
Stephen Marquard and uct.ac.za,
and then we grab the second one.
So this is the double split pattern
where we split it on a blank, then grab
the piece out and then split that on @
sign and then grab the second piece out.
So that's another way to do it.
So this is down to four lines
to pull that information out.
Now if we're even more sophisticated,
what we can do is, we can say let's
look through the string until you find an,
and do this with a regular expression.
So our regular expression is look through
the string until you find an @ sign.
Boop.
Found the @ sign and then
the parenthesis says, start extracting.
And then what we have is one of
these little bracket operators, so
the bracket operator says
a single character, and
if the first character of the bracket
operator is a caret that means not.
It doesn't mean the beginning
of the line in this case.
It's a programming language.
Inside of the brackets, this means not.
Anything but, and then this is a blank.
That's a little blank character, so
that says a single non-blank character.
And then, this asterisk
applies to this character
because this is expressing
one character from a set, the set of
all characters that are not blank.
As many times as you want, and
then finish the extraction.
And that's what it's doing.
It's saying hunt for @, start extraction,
keep going until you find a blank,
oh we found a blank.
So we're stopped it, and
then we end the extraction.
And so
that's how that pulls out that @ sign.
Okay, so now we've reduced this
down to basically one statement.
And we're just carefully expressing
in our little programming language,
using all of our cool special characters,
how to do that.
Now just like before,
we can say you know what?
We're going to look for the string
From at the beginning of the line,
beginning of the line followed by a space,
followed by any number of characters, .*.
So From at the beginning of the line,
I insist on a space, then on any number of
characters, .* it's any number of
characters until I find an @ sign.
Okay, that's good.
Then find an @ sign.
Then we start extracting.
Start extracting, and we keep going for
extracting as long as they're non-blank,
that's cool.
And then we hit a blank, and
then we stop extracting.
This is many non-blank characters,
is what that says.
And then, match many of them.
And so that's a pretty sophisticated
like hunt, find another thing,
skip these other things, start extracting,
extract this long, stop extracting.
And then when we're all said and
done, in a single line, and
again that sort of is the theme
of these regular expressions.
And that's they're like puzzles to
figure out how you can express not
only what you're interested in matching,
but what you're interested in extracting.
And regular expression library
does a lot of that for you.
And like I said, [COUGH]
you don't have to use this, right?
If you don't want to.
So, here's a good example of
a bit of code that we did before
where we're extracting
the spam confidence lines and
if you recall we would open a file, right?
And we're going to come up with a list
of the numbers that we're gonna read.
We're gonna look through the whole file,
we're gonna strip the other stuff.
Now, here's the interesting thing.
At this point in our previous
implementations of this code, we would do,
does it start with this thing?
Split it.
Some of you did look for
the colon and did a just whatever.
There's some use fined, and then slicing.
Some of you split.
But what we can do is collapse all that
into one simple regular expression
that says, I am looking for lines that
start with X-DSPAM-Confidence: space.
There's nothing programmy there.
The caret is programming but
the lines must start with this.
This is really good at ignoring
the data we want to ignore.
So like if it doesn't have that
as the first whatever 16, 18,
20 characters we're skipping the line.
Okay, and then after that you
say start extracting, and
then you look for
a character that is a digit or a period.
That's what this is saying.
One character, in the range 0 through 9,
or period, inside of the brackets.
This is not a wildcard.
It's not wild.
Deuces are not wild inside of brackets.
Dots are not wild inside of brackets.
So this says, so this is because these
numbers are gonna be 0.9762 something.
You want digits or dots and
that's what we're saying, digits or dots.
And we're saying give me one or
more, least greater or equal to one.
And stop when you run out of digits.
So it starts here, goes many digits,
and then stops there.
Now, remember that find
all gives you back a list.
And so the way I tell whether
I actually found something
on this line that did any matching.
The way I do is I ask, is the list
that I got back, is there one or more?
Actually, in this case I'm saying I only
want ones where there's exactly one match.
So, it goes in and pulls the thing
out I want, and I get one match.
That's the length of that thing that
returns set of matches is not one.
I continue, which means I'm skipping all
the lines that don't start with it and
have a number.
And if not, I just pull the zeroth one
out, which actually pulls that number out.
And then I append it, and then I do
my max, and I do my other things.
And so this here is a way of, well,
when I combine these two lines together,
these two lines are both selecting and
extracting, all in one statement.
So like I said at the beginning.
This is a little programming language.
And it seems like it someone just typing
on the keyboard and hitting random keys.
And it certainly does look like that.
But once you get good at it,
it's very fun, nice puzzle.
When you're writing programs for
other people to read don't get too
excited about regular expressions.
It's often fun to go to stack overflow and
say,
how can I do a regular expression to
extract email address or something.
You'll find people craft the regular
expression and share regular expressions.
Like I said, they're their own
little kind of programming language.
Sometimes you want one of these
characters, like a dollar sign,
to not be a code.
And in that case, you simply you
prepend it with a backslash.
So backslash dollar means real dollar
sign, as compared to the end of the line.
And that way you can match things like,
$10 for cookies.
So, I hope you found this interesting.
We're only gonna use this in this chapter.
I wanna expose it to you because a lot of
what we're trying to do in this class is
read data, and
once you get good at regular expressions,
you can write more succinct and
more reliable programs to scan and
extract data using regular expressions.
Don't feel like you have to use them,
but some people love them.
But they're a useful tool no matter what.
And I just wanted to expose them to you,
and I give you an assignment so
you could play with it.
But we're not gonna use it,
we're not gonna obsessively use it for
the rest of the class but
you could if you liked.
Some people will just use regular
expressions from now on as they read data.
And other people say, I never wanna do
this again and both of you are right.
So that's it.
See you in the next lecture.